Good afternoon and
welcome to session 606,
Mac OS X Server in Depth.
Before we start,
I'll just spend a minute or so
talking about some of the specific
goals we had for this release,
the Pencil Server release.
First, we wanted to enhance our admin
software with more features,
improved usability, more integration,
and so on.
Second, we wanted to provide ways to
simplify the setup and configuration
of lots of different servers.
So for example, Rackprobe XSERVs.
And next,
we wanted to complete our transition
from NetInfo to LDAP server as
our primary directory server for
scalability and many other benefits.
And also,
establish a single sign-on strategy
around Kerberos authentication.
This is really important to us.
And lastly, improve our
Windows compatibility features,
both in terms of being able to fit into
existing Active Directory networks,
as well as being able to replace
aging NT servers out there.
There are tons of them out there.
Since we're going to be talking about
directory services and authentication
in two different sessions in details,
we have session 106 coming up
right after this and have session
610 tomorrow morning at 1030.
We're going to be focusing on the three
remaining items that are listed here.
With that, we divided this session
into four subsections.
First,
we're going to talk about server admin
software and architecture behind it,
and also how developers can plug
their software into the architecture.
Second, we're gonna be looking at the
details of the server assistance
new features that's gonna enable
you to set up a bunch of different
servers simultaneously very quickly.
And then we're going to be
talking about Windows features.
We're going to be talking about how
we implemented it on top of Samba 3,
and also how we integrated it with the
rest of Mac OS X Server components.
And lastly but not least,
we have a handful of tips on developing
for the pencil server platforms.
So we're going to be talking
about things like optimizing
your server software and such.
So these are the four things
we're going to talk about today.
And since we usually have sort of mixed
audience of both developers and sysadmin
type people in these server sessions,
we're going to try and have useful
information for both of those audience
groups sort of mixed in everywhere.
So let's just start talking
about the admin software.
In Jaguar Server,
we have two separate applications for
configuring and monitoring servers.
Server settings for configuration
and server status for monitoring.
In PanSource Server,
we are combining those two into a
single application called Server Admin.
and has a bunch of new features
which I'm going to come back to,
but also have a new GUI for
a number of services that
did not have GUI in the past.
For example, we now have QTSS management
integrated with the rest of
Mac OS X Server services,
so you no longer have to go to web-based
admin to manage the streaming server.
We also now have
Open Directory GUI because we keep adding
these new features to Open Directory that
requires configuration,
such as replication support
for LDAP and Kerberos.
And we finally have DNS GUI as well,
since a lot of people have been asking
for this for the last four or five years.
Thank you for waiting and
hope you're going to like it.
And we also have GUI for
NAT application server,
which includes things
like JBoss and such.
And of course,
we also enhanced existing GUI for
services such as web and mail
with a bunch of new features.
At the application level,
actually before we start,
how many of you went to the
Mac OS X Server overview
session before this?
So pretty much everybody.
So you know some of the new features.
So we do have this new
replication feature that you can
replicate configuration services
by simple drag and drop,
which is a pretty cool feature.
We also have GUI for
remote software updates,
so you no longer have to go to the
server machine to perform software
update or go to terminal to do so.
Read-only mode.
So now that we combined
configuration and monitoring,
there was one problem.
And that is,
we think many of you want to keep
this application up and running all
the time so you can monitor things,
but if you walk away from the
machine for a few minutes,
go to the bathroom or wherever,
people can just come up and then
change their configurations.
So to prevent that,
we implemented this thing
called read-only mode,
where the application will not
let you make any changes to your
configuration until you type in
your admin password to unlock it.
And I'm going to demo
that in a few minutes.
We also have a summary view where,
at a glance,
you can look at the status of all
the servers and services so you
don't have to go to individual
servers and see how things are going.
This will be useful for computational
clusters or web server forms or
different environments where you
have a large number of servers that
you want to monitor simultaneously.
And there are other features sort of
scattered throughout the application,
so you can try out your
CD and then check it out.
[Transcript missing]
So you can connect to both Jaguar
servers and Panzer servers.
However, in Jaguar server,
it's monitoring only,
so you cannot configure.
Sorry.
So now I'd like to give you a
little demo of Server Admin,
but the problem is this application's
been popular and it's been
demoed in two other sessions.
I'm running out of things to show you,
but I do have a couple
things I wanted to go over.
So the first thing is, let's see,
go to AFB, and as everybody's seen,
you can do drag and drop replication
here between different servers.
We can also drag this onto a desktop,
and this makes a backup
copy of your configuration.
Thank you.
So later on, if you need to reinstall
the server or whatever else,
you can just go ahead
and simply drag back in.
Thank you.
That will be handy for other people.
And the read-only mode.
So let's go to this menu
here and then lock now.
And application tells you
everything is locked out.
So with that, you see this little icon
here that says Read Only,
and everything in the
settings panel is now,
cannot be edited.
So same thing if you go to the Windows.
It's all grayed out.
Same thing for FTP.
And you can unlock it by just going here,
typing in admin password,
and you're back in business.
You can also set a timer,
so after a certain amount of time,
the application
automatically locks itself,
so it works much like the screensaver.
So that's the server admin,
30 seconds demo.
Back to the presentation, please.
Now let's look at how this
one works behind the scene.
Server Admin is a Cocoa application,
and there is a plugin for
each of the services that you
saw in the left-hand column.
So there is a plugin for AFP,
there's a plugin for the web service,
and so on.
On the server side,
we have a stripped-down version
of Apache Web Server with a few
custom modules that we developed,
and it's working as the
admin server engine.
And the server admin talks to
the backend engine by passing
XML backend force over HTTP,
usually also over SSL.
Whenever there's a request that
comes from the GUI application,
the engine dispatches
to one of the CGI's.
Again, there is one CGI for
each of the services.
There's AP CGI, web CGI, and so on.
Individual CGI's do know how to
talk to its own particular service.
can do things like start and stop
the particular server or service.
You can get real-time status
information from the service,
and you can also read and write
configuration file or configuration
information for the service,
which are usually stored
either in the config file or
up in the directory server.
And as needed,
the CGI also signals the application
to refresh its configuration
or restart if necessary.
And by the way, these CGI's are all just
regular Unix command line tools.
Thank you.
So that's the real basic design
of our admin application,
or admin architecture.
And if you notice, we try to use standard
technology whenever possible.
So HTTP, XML, Apache, CGI, SSL,
and so on.
And also, with this modular design,
it was really easy for us to
develop and debug this product.
For example, to debug this client-side
GUI application or the plugin,
we didn't have to even
have the server-side.
We could simply pass XML into
it and test its functionality.
And vice versa is true, too.
We could just use a web browser
and pass the XML file to the
backend to test the server-side.
We could also test the CGI,
so you could unit test it by
simply SSH into the server and
directly invoking it since they're
just Unix command line tools.
This worked out pretty well for us.
Right now, it is not public,
but if there's enough demand,
we would like to make it public.
If you're interested, please let us know.
I heard seven.
Eight.
Okay, thank you.
I guess we have to look
into making it public.
We have been actually working with
one particular developer to port their
administration software to Server Admin,
and it looks like they have
something up and running now,
so I thought it would be neat
to actually have it demoed.
So now I'd like to welcome Steve Olson,
who is the Technical Director of
Engineering at Sybase.
Thank you, Kazu.
I think most of us here who have had
the job of managing a network of servers
can appreciate and understand the value
of having the right tool for the job.
We at Sybase have heard that from our
customers just about every single day.
So we're very pleased that Apple has
provided this extensible framework
that allows us to plug in our server
management capabilities with the admin
framework that Apple has provided.
Apple understands user interfaces.
We don't.
But we understand our database
and what needs to be done.
So they've provided a very
elegant framework that makes a
very nice user interface for the
administration of our server.
So what we have, well, we've done that.
We've been working with this
toolkit for about 10 days now.
And we have a first pass at what
we think will be available with the
Panther release when Panther comes out.
So standard disclaimer
applies here as I demo this.
It may change quite a bit by the
time we actually release this.
So I've got a Jaguar version here.
I don't have the Panther release.
And what I have is a plug-in
on the admin tool side and the
Apache module on the server side that
understands something about Sybase.
So the general status tool says
what is the state of the service.
And the service is our
adaptive server enterprise.
Amen.
You can do things like
read the transaction logs.
We have a usage indicator that tells
us the general summary of what's going
on inside the server in terms of load,
the number of users connected,
the databases present in the system and
their size and attributes and so forth.
Databases map to devices,
physical devices,
so we have some information about those.
An engine is an operating system process.
We associate one engine per CPU so
we can get information about that.
Any locks that are present in the system,
various monitor information is available.
We have, after learning the framework,
it took us a day or two to sort out
what this Cocoa environment is about.
The challenge before us was then figuring
out what information to present to
you to make it useful and meaningful.
We have, for example,
over 200 configuration values,
yet there's probably a dozen or
so that are very commonly used.
So our task is going to be to sort out
which one of these are most relevant.
We will expose them all,
but in the settings, sorry,
in the settings value we'll
provide maybe a dozen or so
configuration settings that,
for example, numbers of users, memory,
cache sizes and so forth that are
typically used by our customers when
they want to reconfigure the server.
We've been having a lot of fun with it.
This is a very convenient
tool to help us manage.
By the way, you can start and stop the
server without having to use a
terminal window or anything else.
It's a very convenient way to
look at everything going on in the
server from a single workstation.
One thing that is very nice is that
if you've got a list of servers here,
you can get a summary view of all servers
and each service appears as a dot.
Which is either red or
green or some other color.
And you can get a very clear overview
of everything running on your network.
So that's what we've done and this
will be available with our product,
our 12.5.1 release,
which we're tying to the release
and availability of Panther.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]
So let's go back to the
architectural diagram.
I know many of you like Mac OS X,
Mac OS X GUI, and Cocoa,
but some of us still like to use
Terminal for managing servers.
So for those people,
we actually developed a
new command line tool.
It's also called Server Admin.
And with this tool,
you can do everything that
you can do from GUI and more.
So I'd like to show
that to you right now.
Switch to this machine here.
Okay.
Okay, so let's go to terminal.
You can do a server admin list
that lists all the services that
are installed on the server.
And of course, you can use this to start
or stop any of them.
You can also get status on any
particular service you'd like.
So you can do something
like full status AFP.
That gives you a list of
how the server is doing.
So the AFP server is running.
This is the time it was started.
And guest access is on.
There's currently one user
connected from this machine here.
And throughput is zero since
the client is sitting idle.
And you can also issue commands that
are specific to any particular service.
For example, you can do,
So that lists all the currently
connected users with information
such as name of the login name,
the IP address, and how long the person
has been connected for,
and so on.
Of course, you have commands for
disconnecting the user,
sending messages, and so on.
But probably the most common
use for this tool is doing the
configuration of different services.
For that, you can just do settings.
And again,
if you specify any of the services,
let's do AFP,
that lists all the configuration
options for the AFP server and
what the current settings are.
So if you look at it,
you've got the maximum number of threads,
40, the max guest is minus one,
which you think means unlimited,
the error log size, and so on.
You can also, if you know exactly
what you're looking for,
you can simply type in one of the
options and it shows you status of that.
So this tells you that login
greeting setting The text is not set,
so right now it's empty.
Of course,
you can set configuration as well.
So let's go here and
use the login greeting.
If you go to the GUI and look at it,
sure enough the login
greeting's empty right now.
You can go here and specify, let's see,
welcome to WWDC.
That's it.
If you go here and refresh, it works.
So.
Again, you can pretty much do everything
that you want you can do from the
GUI from this terminal application.
But you can also use this as a
building block to build your own
custom solution on top of it.
And to illustrate that,
we wrote a real quick,
simple shell script that
I wanna show it to you.
So let's say you add new websites
to your server frequently
with mostly same options,
and you want to do
that from command line.
You can use our short
script called @site.
And actually before start,
let me go to GUI here.
Web, Settings, Sites,
and make sure the only site that's
defined right now is the default,
so there's no other virtual hosts.
But we're gonna go ahead and add one.
So @site, specify IP address.
And let's see the port number.
Let's make it 8080.
Name of the site, my site,
and the web folder.
There you go.
So if you go to the GUI,
here is the site.
Now you have this website up and running.
Of course, you double click on it,
you got the web floor that
we specified and so on.
So now let's look at how this works.
So, add site is just actually
a single line shell script.
So what it does is use this set to
substitute some of the strings in this
data file at site.in with the argument
that's been passed into the shell script.
And then it pipes the output
to our command line tool,
which is running on .i,
which is an interactive or input mode.
And then if you look at the data file,
it's actually basically just a
collection of the settings for the web
server with a lot of default values,
except for a few of them that start with
underscore such as IP address and then
the port number gets substituted by set.
So it's real simple, but it works.
So hopefully people can use this
server admin command line tool to
create your own custom solution.
So to summarize Server Admin,
for system admins,
we have a new Server Admin
GUI application that combines
configuration and monitoring
and has a bunch of new features.
We also have Server Admin
Command Line tool that you can
use to do pretty much everything
that you can do in the GUI,
or you can use it to use a
building block to build your own
custom solution on top of it.
For developers,
we have a modular and scalable
and flexible server admin
architecture that you can plug into.
If you're interested,
let us know and we'd
love to work with you.
That concludes the server admin portion.
I would like to welcome Scott Mulligan,
who's going to tell us all about the new
server and server assistant features.
Thanks.
Hi there.
Good afternoon.
I'm Scott Mulligan,
and I'll be spending a few minutes with
you discussing the server assistant.
The Server Assistant is the
first application that runs
on a freshly installed server.
And its objective is to
To get the system set up in the
most basic setup state so that it
can be fully configured at a later
time after it's been rebooted.
So in the Jaguar server,
The server assistant is always
run on the system console,
and the system keyboard and mouse
is used to capture setup data.
Additionally,
to accommodate headless servers and to
provide additional level of convenience,
the Jaguar Server Assistant can be
run from a remote system in order to
perform both setup and installation.
Of course, in Panther Server,
we've come up with a couple ways that we
can improve this experience even more.
So with the popularity
of Mac OS X Server,
we realized that many of our
customers are buying multiple servers,
and thus they're setting
up multiple servers.
So with Panther Server,
we've designed it so that they
will be able to set up multiple
servers simultaneously from
a single interview process.
This will be accomplished by running
the server assistant from a remote
system and targeting the specific
servers that you want to set up.
It will look something like this.
Servers that are eligible for setup on
the local subnet will show up in a list.
And the system administrator simply
selects the servers to be set up.
Additionally,
the administrator may add servers to
this list by providing an IP address,
thus enabling the remote setup of a
server that's not on the local subnet.
Once the target systems are
selected and authentication
information has been provided,
The administrator proceeds into
a standard setup interview where
the setup information is collected
and at the end of the interview
all the servers are set up.
There's also another scenario
that we've found that some of
our customers are running into.
It turns out that some of our
customers actually reinstall
their systems from time to time.
And others, due to the specific nature
of how they use our servers,
actually end up resetting their
systems up more frequently as
they repurpose our servers from
one particular task to another.
For these folks,
setting up the server is something that
they'd rather not deal with at all.
So for these folks, we thought,
why not have the servers
set themselves up?
Of course, you need to provide the
setup information once,
but you could save it to a
file to be used again later.
So in Panther Server,
the server assistant has been designed
to actually go out and discover
or set up profile data on its own.
It does this by looking
for the setup data.
In local file systems,
which can include local hard drives
and various types of removable media,
such as CDs, FireWire drives, USB drives,
etc.
Additionally,
the server assistant will look and
try to discover setup data that has
been saved to a directory server.
If a directory server is accessible
and it holds setup data that
pertains directly to this server,
then the setup assistant will utilize
that data to set up the server.
So, what does this mean?
Well, for one thing it means that your
iPod can set up your server.
Imagine saving setup profiles for
dozens of servers onto your iPod,
or a FireWire drive, a USB thumb drive,
maybe even a CompactFlash card reader.
You walk up to your server, plug it in,
and your server sets itself up.
Or maybe you save these profiles
onto your directory server
that's on your local network.
Your servers just set themselves up.
You wouldn't have to plug anything in.
They could just find the info they need,
set themselves up, all on their own.
So how does this work?
Well, first of all,
we have a special setup daemon
that runs on the server when
the server needs to be set up.
And there is a special place
on the server that the server
setup daemon examines from time
to time looking for setup data.
The daemon loops periodically checking
to see if this data has shown up.
But there are other places the daemon
could attempt to find the setup data.
Directory servers, for example,
or local file system.
The daemon will examine these places
as it proceeds through its loop.
And if it's able to find
the relevant setup data,
it will utilize it
And then it will restart the system.
So these last few slides have focused
on the back end process that actually
enables this auto setup feature.
Let's look at the bigger picture though.
As I showed you in the previous slides,
there's a server setup daemon
that is running on the server.
And there's a specific place that
it examines for that setup data.
But there's also a GUI application.
And that GUI application can be
running locally on the server or it
could be running on a remote system,
say your desktop in your office.
In either case,
this GUI application presents an
interview to the administrator in
order to collect the setup data.
And at the end of that interview,
if the server is to be
set up at this time,
in other words,
at the end of the interview process,
that setup data is delivered to
this specific location on the
server that the server setup
daemon examines from time to time.
And if that's done,
it enables the server to set itself up.
But as we said,
the server setup daemon can
discover data in other locations,
as in the directory server.
So therefore...
The GUI application has to
have the ability to save to,
to connect to, to begin with,
to connect to a directory server
and save to a directory server.
The setup data.
And once this is done, of course,
it allows the server to set itself up.
And, as we mentioned before,
the same thing can be done
with the local file system.
I'd like to point out that the local
file system here may not be local to
the server at the time that you save it.
It may be your iPod,
but when you carry it over
and plug it into your server,
it becomes local file
system on the server.
On the other hand,
it could be a partition that
already exists on this server.
Okay,
so the setup profile for your server
may contain sensitive data that
you don't want other people to see.
If that data is saved onto some form
of removable media that you actually
safeguard yourself as the administrator,
such as your iPod,
that might not be a problem.
But that's not always the case.
Therefore, any time data is saved
from the GUI application,
whether it's to a file
or to directory services,
an option is provided
to encrypt that data.
The encryption utilizes a user-provided
passphrase that is used as the key for
both encrypting and decrypting the data.
Encryption is accomplished
using the CAS5 CBC algorithm of
the OpenSSL command line tool.
The server setup daemon process will
wait for the data to become decrypted.
So if the data is available
but it's encrypted,
it will wait for that
data to become decrypted.
However, while it's waiting,
it has also been designed to see
if it can find a decryption key.
So it will look in local file systems,
in a specific location on
those local file systems,
to see if it can find
that decryption key.
It will not look in directory services.
For obvious reasons.
But if it can find that key,
it will utilize it to decrypt the file.
So you can imagine having
this key file on your iPod,
and while the data may be
available and encrypted,
all you need to do is walk up and
plug in your iPod and it goes.
Additionally,
the GUI application itself has
a mechanism for delivering this
passphrase directly to the server.
And in that case,
that passphrase is used to
decrypt the data directly.
Now you may remember I said
that you might be able to
save dozens or even hundreds,
if not more, of these setup profile
data files onto your iPod.
This is how you keep track of
them so that you know which setup
file goes with which server.
Basically,
the server setup daemon process
looks for these setup files by name,
and it looks in a particular order.
So these are the naming conventions,
and this is the order in
which it looks for them.
To begin with,
it'll look for a file that's named with
the Ethernet hardware address .plist.
Then it'll look for an IP address,
followed by a hostname .plist,
and then finally the
hardware serial number.
And then we also provide
a catch-all name,
which is just the word generic,
which will match any server.
So let's take a quick look
at generating a setup profile
using the server assistant.
And then we'll look at how we can
examine that file using the plist editor.
So could you switch over
to this machine please?
So here I have the server assistant.
I'm going to bring it up.
And we'll be working on it with
this in sort of an offline mode.
And in order to make this go a
little bit quicker and I don't
have to type in a lot of stuff,
I'm actually going to load in a
configuration file I've saved earlier.
And in my home directory here,
in the admin home directory,
I have one called serversettings.plist.
So I'm gonna load that in.
So as you can see,
you can use Server Assistant to actually
edit configurations you've saved before.
So it's been brought in and you can see
we've already set up certain things.
We could actually change
this if we wanted to.
Oops, gotta be able to type.
Continue on.
Here I've already got a
server name set up for it,
network interface.
Here I already have
Apple File Service and
FTP service enabled,
but I'm also going to
turn on Mail service.
Continue on.
We have our time zone.
We'll go ahead and have it
use a network time server.
And at the very end of
the interview process,
you have a summary page that you can
review the settings that you've made.
You can see all those here.
You can go back,
make changes if you like.
And then over here you have
the ability to save this.
Now you can save it as a text file,
which is basically going to be just
like this part right here that we were
looking at that I was scrolling through.
Something that you might
be able to print out,
put in a file cabinet somewhere.
Or you can save it as
a configuration file.
And this is where you
save it into a plist file.
And here's your option to save
it encrypted if you'd like.
You could also save it
to a directory server.
So I'm going to go ahead and save
this as a configuration file.
And I'm going to save it into
the admin home directory.
I'm going to go ahead and call
this server02.apple.com.plist.
And it's been saved
into the home directory,
so let's go take a look at that.
and So here's my home directory and
you probably just saw that blink as
the file was added to the list here.
So we can open this file with
our property list editor.
And you can see this is
just a simple XML file.
Let's look at the services
that we set to auto start.
As you can see, we have File, FTP,
and Mail, which are the settings.
Up here, the Admin User.
I had, I changed it to Snidely,
Snidely Whiplash.
So that's it in a nutshell.
And at this time,
I'm going to turn the
podium over to Rusty Tucker,
who's going to talk to you
about Windows compatibility.
Thank you.
Thanks, Scott.
Even before we started,
you guys were booing my demo,
so we might as well bring up number
four here and get it out of our system.
What is there not to love about an
operating system that demands you give it
the three-finger salute just to log in?
So if we go back to the slides,
but seriously,
we've got a lot of neat things in
Mac OS X Server that help you integrate
into existing Windows networks
and support Windows networks.
So where we are today,
the Jaguar server provides basically a
standalone server for Windows clients.
That's all based on Samba 2.2X.
Provides good,
very robust and high performance
SMB file and print services.
But that comes with a number of
functional limitations in how
people would like to deploy it.
We don't have a way to change password.
You can't provide domain logins.
You can't host Windows Home directories.
And we have no way of taking the
client or the server to fit into an
existing active directory network,
for example.
So the first thing we'll talk about is
fitting into Active Directory networks.
Both the client and the server can do
this with the Active Directory plugin.
Provides proxied authentication,
UID and GID mapping back to
the Active Directory directory.
And you can come and see the
directory services session tomorrow
for some more information about that.
But there's one thing that's really
missing here in this scenario,
and That's it,
you still have Windows NT servers
on this network.
So what we'd like to do in Panther is
provide a way to replace those
Windows servers on the network.
And so the Panther server
can be configured as a
primary domain controller.
And what that means is that it provides
directory and authentication services
to the Windows clients on the network.
And that lets you support Windows home
directories and single sign-on.
So Windows user, they log into the login
window that we saw in XP,
provide their name and password once,
and to any services in the domain,
they will not need to provide
that name and password again.
It also supports the roaming profile so
that the settings follow the user when
they log in from machine to machine.
And we can provide unified management
using the server admin and the
workgroup manager administration tools.
So what is a Windows Network login?
What are the components of that?
First of all, when you log in,
it comes and downloads the
roaming profile from the network.
And this is all the
settings for the user,
including their desktop picture,
settings for Internet Explorer,
and so on.
It's really, in the Mac OS X world,
it's similar to what you
find in the Twiddle public,
or Twiddle library,
all the preferences in there.
The second thing is the
home directory mount,
and that contains shared items,
and it's really analogous
to our Twiddle public.
It's a way for you to share files and
things with other users on the network.
And you can also define a startup script,
which can be used to mount other
SharePoints or run applications
every time that you log in.
And we've chosen Samba 3 in order
to implement this in Panther Server.
We chose Samba 3 because it provides
Unicode support on the wire.
This is supported by all
the modern Windows clients.
And it also provides a
plug-in architecture,
not only for the user accounts,
but also for us to get
directory information back.
And lastly,
we've added to this a way to support
our just-in-time home directory
creation and setting quotas,
as we do in AFP.
And so we'll take a brief look at
how we've actually implemented this
and how the block diagram sets up.
We've got Samba 3.0 as a starting point.
By default, it wants to integrate with
local private databases,
especially Samba 2.2 did this,
and even Windows NT servers do
this with the Windows Registry
and their SAM database.
In our architecture and environment,
we want to switch that out and set
it up to work with Open Directory.
And we're working with the password
server and LDAP server on the back end.
And the plugins for Asamba are
going to allow us to do this.
First of all, we've got the Auth plugin.
The plugin is actually
called AuthOpenDirectory,
provides authentication
services to the clients.
And that hooks us up to the
LDAP server on the back,
or not to the LDAP server,
but to the password server,
where we can get LANMAN and NT hash
authentications for the Windows clients.
Second directory plugin through
the directory plugin API is
called the PDB Open Directory,
and that supports all the getting
and setting of user attributes,
and that's basically talking to
the LDAP service on the back end.
So once we've got that all hooked up,
now you can use our administration tools,
click,
such as Workgroup Manager to actually
create Windows user accounts,
set their passwords, set password policy,
and so on.
And lastly is integration
into the server itself.
As you've seen with the
server assistant setup,
we want to provide a way for servers
to be able to configure themselves.
And a way to do this with clients
is to provide just-in-time setup
for the home directories and also
to set quotas like AFP Server does.
And this is provided through the
root-per-exec configuration and some
scripts and tools that we've written.
and source code for all this
available from the Darwin site,
including our plugins.
You've heard before there's tight
integration between the Windows users
and the Mac users in the directory,
and it's actually the same user account,
same user password.
We've extended the user record
to provide the attributes that
are required by Windows users,
and they're distinct from Mac users,
so there's no overlap there.
The drive letter for
mounting the home directory,
UNC address of the SharePoint where their
home directory is going to come from,
the login script path,
and the path to the roaming profiles.
And the computers themselves
need to authenticate before
they join the network,
and so we've had to extend the computer
record to support that as well.
So now we'll look at a demo
and back to demo three.
First thing we'll take a look at
is how you actually set up a PDC.
And you'll notice that whenever
we're looking at setting up Windows,
whether it's Windows computers,
Windows users, or Windows,
the service itself,
we'll have the Windows label
on all those items.
And like with all the other services,
we've got an overview, logs, connections,
graphs that shows connected users,
and of course, settings.
And so what's new here is
that we have added additional
roles for each one of the,
for the service.
It can be the standalone
server that we had with Jaguar.
It can be a domain member.
So it can be not the server
that's providing domain controller
services to the network,
but just be a server that's
providing sharing services or
supporting Windows home directories,
or primary domain controller.
And here you'll set the domain
name and the computer name.
Whenever we do that,
when you set it up to
primary domain control,
it also enables WINS service to
enable the Windows Internet Naming
service on the network,
which is really important for that.
We'll go to Workgroup Manager next.
You can see we've got two users,
Admin and Bill.
Bill will be our Windows user.
It's a very complicated user.
Everything that we're going to
see basically is the same as
what a Mac OS X user would have.
Password type, open directory,
you can define groups that
they have memberships in,
home directory,
they've got a SharePoint called users,
mail, print services,
and then the Windows panel.
And this is where you
define the profile path,
the login script,
the location of where the hard drive,
the mount point for the user SharePoint.
So now that we've got that,
now we can actually log in
to this Windows computer if
we want to bring up Demo 4.
And here we choose the domain
that we're going to log into.
In this case,
it recognizes the in-depth domain
that we've defined on the server.
Type of password, it logs in,
downloads the user settings,
and then comes up with the
familiar Windows desktop.
Where we can go to my computer
and actually see the mount point.
You can see it actually populates
it with the Mac OS X directory,
the home directory style
for Mac OS X users.
So they get the movies directory,
library, public pictures, everything.
So this same user can also log in on
Mac OS X machines on this network.
And we'll go ahead and do that.
We gotta log him out.
First of all, he wants to save the
settings back to the server.
Now that that's done,
we come back to demo three.
[Transcript missing]
This user has done his forward
migration and is now a Mac OS X user.
and you see the same home directory.
So that's that.
So next up, Greg Vaughan will bring us
a little information about
developing for Mac OS X Server.
Hello, I'm Greg Vaughan.
Yeah, as he said, I'm going to talk about
developing for Mac OS X Server,
so I guess all you sysadmins
can sort of tune out now.
So the first thing I want
to talk about is XServe.
XServe is the primary
platform for Mac OS X Server.
Because of that,
you need to be aware that any
applications you write for
X Server are likely to be running
on a system that's got no keyboard,
no monitor, no logged in user.
This sort of environment
limits the frameworks and
APIs you can use in Mac OS X.
Obviously, you're going to want
to avoid the GUI APIs,
AppKit, HIToolbox.
You need to be careful about APIs that
might want to bring up dialogues,
you know, like logging in,
mounting network volumes,
you need to bring up an
authentication dialogue.
There's a lot of APIs that are perfectly
fine to use in this environment.
Core Services is an umbrella framework.
It has a few, including Carbon Core.
which is the lower
levels of the Carbon API.
Foundations available.
If you want to write a Cocoa app,
you can write a server in Cocoa.
Foundation has a lot of server-safe APIs.
If you've got a C or C++ server,
but you want to have some
Mac OS X functionality like reading
preferences out of a P list,
Core Foundation has a lot of
useful APIs callable from C.
So if you want to provide a user
interface to your application,
you're going to need to separate out that
user interface from your core service.
You've seen examples of this.
Basically, our server admin product
and our server assistant,
both are implemented this way.
Your GUI part's going to need to
be able to run on a remote machine,
so you're going to need to have a way of
targeting what server you're talking to.
Basically, you can type in an IP address,
but Rendezvous provides a
really nice mechanism for
browsing and locating servers.
You're going to need to
provide a networking connection
between your two halves.
If you've got administration data,
often you want that to be
an encrypted connection,
but you don't necessarily need to
write the networking software yourself.
Our various services,
we've employed a variety of techniques.
Server admin uses HTTP over SSL and talks
to an Apache web server on the back end.
The sharing portion of workgroup
manager actually uses open directory
and open directory proxy to stuff
values into the directory on the
server that the service then reads out.
That's more of a one-way communication.
And server assistant actually
packages its functionality as a set
of command line tools and then invokes
those tools remotely using SSH.
Finally,
you're going to need a separate installer
for the GUI portion so it can be
installed on your admin client machine.
Next thing I'd like to talk
about is a bit about performance.
I'm going to pass on a few things
we've learned when we were optimizing
the performance of our own services.
One of the things we've looked
a lot at is the reducing
the system calls in servers.
Even system calls that would
normally be quite fast,
you need to be aware in a server
environment on a loaded server,
calls into the kernel can
cause contention between
various threads and processes.
The contention will cause lots
of extra process flipping,
which will result in wasted CPU time.
For instance,
when we were looking at Samba 3,
we decided to make a couple changes.
We changed the read and write
calls to pread and pwrite because
it avoids the extra LSEEK.
And we also, Samba implemented some
locking using F control calls,
and in this case,
spin locks seemed to be fine.
We switched to that.
And these two changes alone
resulted in a new system.
noticeable increase in performance.
We also in Samba decided to change the,
for networking I/O,
the read and write calls
to receive and send.
Read and write need to go through
the file system code to look at the
file descriptor to decide that it
actually is a socket descriptor.
Whereas receive and send can call
directly into the network code,
and that avoids some locking as well.
In AFP, we not only used Receive,
but because AFP reads in a header
and then knows how much data
it wants to read in its packet,
it actually uses the message
weight all on Receive.
Normally, Receive will wake up each
time some data comes in,
and if the process is just going to
look at it and go back to sleep again
waiting for the rest of the data,
again, that's wasted CPU time.
Another thing we did in AFP was we
decided to switch to memory mapped I.O.
for reads because that way when
you're actually doing the reading,
you bypass the file system and
go to the lower level VM system,
which also can avoid some
contention and improve performance.
You do need to be a bit
careful of memory mapped I.O.
because the VM system isn't going
to be able to return errors.
If you've got a sort of
a drive that can go away,
like a network mounted drive,
it can be difficult to
deal with that situation.
So you want to avoid it for
drives that perhaps can disappear,
you know, unexpectedly.
Last thing I just want to say is
if you're developing a server and
you're looking at performance,
it's important not to just
look at the service itself,
but its impact on the
performance of the whole system.
If the one service slows
down the rest of the system,
people are writing several
servers on the same X Server,
obviously it's not going to be popular
if the entire system gets slowed down.
So the twin to performance
is scalability.
Basically, the main message is when
you're developing your server,
you need to look to the future,
look to expanded requirements.
We all know computers are
getting more powerful,
networks are getting bigger.
If you have to re-implement your server
next year for some new requirements,
that's a lot of extra work.
So you just want to keep that in
mind as you're designing things.
Hard drives are certainly
an example of this.
XServe ships with XServe RAID.
It can support two and a half terabytes.
You need to be aware of the large files
and large numbers of files you might
need to deal with on the file system.
In addition, with directory systems,
there can be large numbers of
users in the directory system.
We actually had to revisit some of our
design decisions in Workgroup Manager,
and we dealt with things
like the LA school system,
which put practically every child in
the LA area into one large database.
You're not going to be able to do things
like enumerate through all the users,
and so if you've got a
UI for picking users,
you need to be able to deal with
that and do perhaps directed
searches and choosing of users.
You also want to be aware of the large
number of connected users you can have.
As servers become more powerful,
people are going to use them to
serve more and more client machines.
So you need to just keep in mind that
the number of users that may connect to
your service will increase over time.
At the same time,
you need to allow for the
variety of connection types.
Even if you're developing a server
that's intended to be used in a
corporate workgroup environment,
you're going to have users
connecting over airport,
users connecting from
home using DSL and VPN,
and these sorts of connections
have a very high latency.
So even if you have an operation that's
very fast when you're on the LAN,
there's a large number
of network round trips.
For this type of environment,
it can become extremely slow.
So it's important to look at the
actual network traffic and test
for these types of connections.
Then the last little section,
I just wanted to talk about a
couple APIs that are available.
Open Directory is certainly
something we continue to push.
It's a nice way to connect to a
large number of directory systems.
There's a flexible API.
There's a plug-in architecture,
so it can be expanded to talk
to new proprietary systems.
There's a session on this tomorrow
you're certainly encouraged to go to.
Single sign-on is a big push in Panther,
and it's going to become even
more important in the future.
So definitely, if you're doing a service,
you need to look at supporting
Kerberos authentication in
both the client and the server.
Hopefully, single sign-on will
become very prevalent.
People will get very used to
connecting to network resources
without having to authenticate.
So if one service continues to
pop up an authentication dialogue,
people are going to become annoyed.
I just wanted to point out,
it was mentioned in the server
overview session that we've switched
to an open source mail solution.
Because of that,
they're provided APIs for
spam and virus filtering that
weren't available in Jaguar,
so that can be new
opportunities to look at.
Finally, if you're developing a
media-related application,
you might be interested
in the QuickTime streaming
server session tomorrow.
It, again, has a plug-in API as well
as being fully open source.
So that's the end of my
little brief section.
And basically,
here are people to contact.
I hadn't seen this slide before.
And here's some of the
sessions I just mentioned.
In addition,
the X Server feedback session
is immediately following
this one in North Beach.
So if we run out of time for Q&A here,
you're welcome to go and bug us there.
All right, and this is just some
open source pointers.
And if you remember something
later in terms of feedback,
here's a page you can go to and
harass us even after we're gone.